- [Narrator] Now that we've run some simple
spring data query methods,
let's kick it up a notch and look at some samples
of query methods containing clauses
and more complex property expressions.
So we have in this view here
using conditional expressions within a query method.
findByFullTimeOrAgeLessThan and the parameters are
passing in whether they're full or time or not
and the maximum age.
findByAttendeeFirstNameAndAttendeeLastName
so the parameters are first named passed in
and last name passed in.
And it's also good to know that findByAttendee
passing in the person object
yields the same list of students.
Next we have query methods using expressions with operators.
Let's look at findByAgeGreaterThan minimumAge.
So we want to find students older than a certain age.
findByFullTimeOrAgeLessThan so we pass in
the fullTime status and the maximum age.
findByAttendeeLastNameIgnoreCase so we're passing in
the last name and it's not case sensitive.
And then a wild card search findByAttendeeLastNameLike
and so we'll pass in a likeString.
And we'll look at that in an example.
Now these are getting a little more complicated
so I put a comment above each method
to understand what it's trying to accomplish.
To actually apply limiting and ordering of results.
Find highest student in the alphabet.
So findFirstByOrderByAttendeeLastNameAsc().
Find the oldest student.
findTopByOrderByAgeDec().
And then find the 3 oldest students.
findTop3ByOrderByAgeDesc().
There are many more options for you to choose from.
Refer to the spring data reference Appendix C:
Repository query keywords to form even more
query combinations.
Many things to choose from there.
Let's run these.
I'm back in my QueryDemo class and I'm going to
invoke the intermediateQueryExamples method.
So first I'm going to find the student by last name
and traverse the entities.
In this case I'm passing the first and the last name.
As separate parameters.
So I have Jane and Doe being passed in.
And here it found Jane Doe.
And I just wanted to show you how if you
instantiate a person object and construct Jane and Doe
that way it will yield the same result.
We still get studentId 1.
Now we want to find students older than 19.
findByAgeGreaterThan(19).
And we have John Doe and Jane Doe.
Now we want to find students that are under 19.
findByAgeLessThan(19).
And we have Mike Smith.
Now we want to find students with last name Doe
and it's not case sensitive so I'm actually passing
a capital D on Doe,
even though we know in the database it's a lowercase D.
And so we find Jane and John Doe.
Now we want to find students with I in the last name.
Let me scroll up a little bit.
Wildcards are a % so I have %i%.
So if anybody has the letter i in their last name
we'll find it.
And it found Mike Smith and Ally Kim.
Now let's find the first student in the alphabet.
With this really long method signature
findFirstByOrderByAttendeeLastNameAsc().
We find that that's Jane Doe.
And find the oldest student.
findTopByOrderByAgeDesc().
And lastly find the three oldest students.
findTop3ByOrderByAgeDesc().
And that's John, Jane and Ally.